                                         Kreativ Dental Clinic

1141 Budapest, Vezér utca 100, Hungary

Phone: +36 1 222 01 99

US Primary Kreativ Dental Agents:
Bronwyn and Craig Jones

CANADA Primary Dental Agent:

Megan Allard



    Budapest, Hungary, Europe’s leading destination for high-quality dental treatment and dental tourism.




FOR AGENTS ONLY
    IMPORTANT: This guide is ONLY for agents and should not be shared with prospective patients. It is designed to
    educate and help agents answer the most common questions asked by prospective patients considering treatment at
    Kreativ Dental in Budapest.
    Agents should use information provided as a guide only.
    Agents should never guess or provide clinical advice beyond their knowledge. When in doubt, seek clarification
    through the National Agents from the clinic’s dental professionals.



AGENT GOLDEN RULE
    It is always better to say “I don’t know, but I will find out for you” or “I will confirm that for you” than to provide
    inaccurate information.
    Patients trust Kreativ Dental for its professionalism, honesty, and integrity.
INDEX
1: Why do so many American patients choose Kreativ Dental
2: Is Budapest Safe
3: Example of cost difference from the U.S. to Budapest
4: Why is Dental care so expensive compared to the U.S. and Canada
5: How much can I save having treatment in Budapest at Kreativ
6: Is the quality of care comparable to the U.S. and Canada
7: Patient treatment questions and scheduling
8: Treatment scenarios and time required at Clinic
9: Can I receive a treatment plan before traveling to Hungary
10: Can you tell me exactly what treatment I need from my x-rays
11: How accurate is a treatment plan using x-rays
12: Can I have an implant at the same time as my extraction
13: What does 5 working days mean, can I leave early
14: How many days will I need to be in Budapest for crowns
15: Do you do “all-on-4's’
16: Some sample time frames for different procedures
17: How is my pain/anxiety managed
18: Can I have a root canal and a crown at the same time
19: Travel, Accommodation and Support
20: Why is it important to inform Main Agents of patient travel plans as soon as possible
21: I only want one dental trip to Budapest is this possible
22: Will I have a dental appointment every day
23: What day should I plan to arrive in Budapest to start my Treatment
24: What are crowns made from
25: Dental implants
26: What implant brands does Kreativ Dental use
27: What is the difference between implant brands
28: What is a sinus lift and why is it necessary?
29: Wisdom teeth removal
30: Can Kreativ Dental help if I have extensive dental problems
31: Cost and payments
32: What is a theoretical plan - a sample theoretical plan
33: Are there hidden costs
34: Transport and accommodation
35: How far is the Kreativ Dental clinic from the airport
36: Is Budapest safe
37: Guarantees and aftercare
38: Will I need maintenance after treatment
39: I have diabetes can I have dental implants
40: I smoke can I have dental implants
41: In take medication will that be a problem
42: Questions that agents should never ask
43: Golden rule when uncertain never guess
44: Our biggest competitor is corrupt
45: What to expect in Budapest
46: What is an Apicoectomy
47: What to do if a patient wants to split treatment
49: Can I speak to the dentist before I travel to Budapest
50: Teeth numbering system
51: What to do if patient no longer requires transport from the airport
52: The preposes we use to respond to an email from a patient
53: Communicating with someone who is not the dental patient
54: International dental certifications
55: Template for responding to a patient who has sent X-Rays
56: What is a dental passport
57: What power adapter should I bring to Budapest
58: Why do I need a bone graft
59: What is a temporary crown or bridge unit, Plastic/Acrylic crown or bridge unit,
Aesthetic Shoulder Porcelain


60: What are Periodontal Surgical Treatments
61: What is a Closed Curettage Periodontal Surgery
62: What are:
Precision Attachment
Long Term Temporary Partial Denture
Denture reline/Rebase
Adding tooth to Denture


63: What is a Sinus Closing
64: Arcus Digma II
65: Face Bow Registration
66: Multi Surface Filling
67: Dental Filling
68: Night Guard


69: Dental Hygienic Treatment
   Tooth Whitening home Kit
   Zoom! Tooth Whitening Upper and Lower
70: Dental Tax Deduction (America)
71: Dental Finance
72: How do Clients Pay at Clinic
73: Dental Awards




1:
Q: Why do so many American patients choose Kreative Dental for their dental tourism?
     A: Patients choose Kreativ Dental because of its highly qualified dentists, modern facilities, advanced
     technology, excellent patient care, and significant savings compared with treatment costs in the United
     States and Canada.
     Hungary is also the undisputed dental capital of Europe. Dentists in Hungary are required to meet strict
     European Union educational standards. Kreativ is highly recommended for complex implantology and
     prosthetics.
2:
Q: Is Budapest safe?
         A. Hungary is the 17th safest country in the world according to the global peace index. Safety rankings of
         other Dental Tourism countries according to the https://www.economicsandpeace.org/wp-
         content/uploads/2026/06/Global-Peace-Index-2026-Report.pdf
         Hungary - 17th safest
         Mexico - 135th safest
         Turkey - 146th safest
         U.S.A. and Canada are not dental tourism destinations, but the U.S. is ranked 125th and Canada is ranked
          14th
         You can drink the water out of the tap safely, this is not true for Mexico, Turkey, Costa Rica and
          Thailand. Even if a patient chose a good clinic in one of these destinations, their safety outside is far
          poorer.




3:

Q. First things first. MONEY: What are some examples of prices at Kreativ Dental compared to the
USA?

         The following chart outlines average price differences between standard US dental networks and Kreativ
         Dental's published fees. It is always FULL TRANSPARENCY at Kreativ Dental.

         Even after airfare and hotel costs, many Americans save 50–75% on major restorative dental work
         in Budapest."
                          Connecticu
      Procedure                             Missouri        New York City       Budapest
                              t
      Premium
      Implant             $3,000–
                                        $2,500–$4,500       $4,000–$7,000       $900–$1,800
      (implant            $5,000
      only)
      Zirconia
                          $1,400–
      Crown                             $1,100–$1,800       $1,800–$3,000       $450–$800
                          $2,200
      (per tooth)
      Porcelain
                          $1,500–
      Veneer                            $1,200–$2,000       $2,000–$4,000       $350–$700
                          $2,500
      (e.max)
      Root Canal          $1,000–
                                        $800–$1,500         $1,500–$3,000       $189–$500
      Therapy             $2,000
      Complete
      Denture             $2,000–
                                        $1,500–$4,000       $3,000–$8,000       $500–$1,500
      (upper or           $5,000
      lower)
      Composite
      White               $250–$500     $175–$400           $350–$800           $94–$121
      Filling

TOTAL IMPLANT COST: USA vs. Budapest Dental Fee Comparison (2026 Estimates) Complete Premium Implant Cost

(Implant + Abutment + Zirconia Crown)

Location                                               Typical Cost Per Finished Tooth
Connecticut                                       $5,000–$8,000
Missouri                                          $4,000–$7,000
New York City                                     $6,500–$12,000+
Budapest                                          $1,800–$3,000

REAL LIFE EXAMPLE: June 2026 (Check Current Prices do not use these figures)
4 IMPLANTS, 5 CROWNS,
US DENTIST: $43,353             KREATIV DENTAL: $14,000




4:     Q: Why is dental care so expensive in the US and Canada?

    here are three reasons, none of which are related to the quality of care. As a result of the huge
shortage of Dentists, they can charge far higher prices
Supply and Demand – Coupled to the huge shortage of dentists in the US. Dentists in America are
aging out of the profession because of this alone. Dental Tourism is predicted to increase by 20% per year
for the next ten years. (good news for us to see the chart below!)




 Cost of Dental education in the US: The total estimated cost – factoring in room, board, and supplies –
 typically ranges from $230,000 to over $400,000. The average debt at the end of their studies for a new
 dentist is $330,000 this often result in the new dentist having to work for a dental corporation who will
 make these payments as part of their employment, this environment results in high costs to the client,
 but it also gives us a great advantage when discussing the benefits of going to Hungary for dental care.


 Niche Specialists in the US and Canada - The dental process can be slow in Canada and the U.S. As a
 result of having to go to several specialists to complete your dental treatment with appointments being
 spread over a longer period. This process increases costs as well. Kreativ is all under one roof and
 ownership and therefore is multi-collaborative. Each of these U S and Canadian specialists have their
 own separate business expenses, staff, and scheduling etc.
      Endodontics: eg root canals
      Orthodontics: braces, aligners, bad bites
      Periodontics: Gum disease, Implants
      Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery: The most medical-adjacent specialty. Surgical procedures -
         extractions, corrective jaw surgery, and facial reconstruction.
      Prosthodontics: Dentures, crowns, and specialized bridges.
5:
Q. How much can I save by having treatment in Hungary?
     A: Savings vary depending on the treatment required. Many patients save 70%
          B. After factoring in travel from the US and Canada, hotel and meals, the savings is generally more
          than 50% (and you get a European holiday as well, dental work, is usually between 1-3 hours per
          day, and not every day)




6:
Q: Is the quality of treatment comparable to what I would receive at home?
      DEFINITELY YES. Kreativ Dental has treated thousands of international patients and maintains high
       clinical standards using modern equipment and internationally recognized treatment protocols. (Go to
       the index to see more details about certifications.)
           o Kreativ Dental has been certified to the ISO 9001:2015 standard for its quality management
               system.
           o The certification covers dental treatment, dental laboratory services, and X-ray diagnostics.
           o The certification was issued by Lloyd's Register for Quality Assurance (LRQA), a globally
               recognized certification body.


          For prospective patients, highlight:
      ISO 9001:2015 Certification (LRQA).
      Treatment Abroad Code of Practice Accreditation.
      Membership in the Hungarian Dental Association.
      The clinic's in-house laboratory and specialist team structure.
      Kreativ dental has been internationally voted the number Dental Clinic in Europe repeatably and has
       been a pioneer in Dental Tourism since 1999. We also offer one of the best guarantees in the industry
       (read the guarantee it’s on the web page)


                These are the credentials most likely to resonate with international patients evaluating dental
                tourism.
7:
PATIENT TREATMENT QUESTIONS & SCHEDULING


Q. WHAT CAN I DO AHEAD OF TIME?
Q. HOW CAN I GET THE MOST ACCURATE ESTIMATE OF MY NEEDED WORK?
Q. WHAT INFORMATION DO I NEED TO SEND TO GET A PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT?
         Send X-rays, CBCT Scan and any supporting documentation such as a treatment plan from a
          local dentist. This information needs to be sent to the main agents. They will forward it to the
          clinic for evaluation. Once it returns, we will send it back to you and if needed, assist you with
          your response. Let us know if you need technical support send any of these materials BELOW:


         Clear photographs of your SMILE…..
              o Your dental history, briefly
              o Information about any pain, missing teeth, or concerns
         Essential X-Rays
         OPG (Panoramic Radiograph): This is the single most important image. It captures your entire upper
          and lower jaws, sinuses, and tooth roots in one 2D image.
         3D Dental CT scan (CBCT): If you are seeking dental implants, full-mouth restorations, or complex
          bone grafting, ask for a copy of your 3D CT scan.
         Provide Supporting Documentation from Your US Dentist (if possible)
         Periodontal Chart: This documents the depth of your gum pockets. It is crucial to determine whether
          you have gum disease that requires treatment before undergoing cosmetic or implant work.
         Clinical Notes & Treatment History: A written overview of recent procedures, especially regarding
          root canals, crowns, or extractions, and any specific materials used.
         Recent Dentist/Specialist Diagnosis: If a US dentist recently proposed a treatment plan (e.g., "needs 3
          implants and 4 crowns"), include their written treatment plan and diagnosis, so Kreativ knows exactly
          what your dentist was targeting.
         Ask your US dentist for an export of your DICOM files (typically used for CT scans) and high-resolution
         JPEGs or PDFs for your X-rays and charts. They can securely share these via email, cloud storage, or
         place them on a USB flash drive for you to mail us or the clinic (decision will be made as per the
         circumstances) or securely upload. Send to tousa@kreativdentalclinic.eu

         If a physical address is required Craig Jones

         Dental 85 Lamplighter Drive Marco Island FL 3414
8:

TREATMENT SCENARIOS & TIME REQUIRED AT CLINIC
NOTE: Every patient is different. Any treatment plan prepared before your visit is provisional and based solely
on the information available at the time. The final treatment plan, timeline, and costs may change after clinical
assessment and diagnostic imaging.
Thus, provide as much information and x-rays as you can from your client prior to their visit. You will help
Budapest better estimate treatments and the time required.
ALSO, it is strongly recommended that patients arrive the day before and do not make travel arrangements that
require them to leave Budapest immediately after their scheduled treatment period. Encouraging flexibility in
travel plans is always advisable. Alternatively, purchase a flexible return ticket.
9:
Q: Can I receive a treatment plan before traveling to Hungary?
       A: Sometimes, YES. Patients may submit recent panoramic X-rays, CT scans, photographs, and dental
      records for review. This information is often enough for the clinic to provide a theoretical plan.
      However, any treatment plan prepared prior to an in-person consultation is purely theoretical and based
      solely on the information provided. Because there are often unknown factors and clinical variables that
      cannot be identified without a physical examination, the proposed treatment plan, procedures, timeline,
      and costs may change.
      All treatment recommendations remain subject to confirmation, modification, or revision following a
      comprehensive in-person examination and diagnostic assessment by the treating dentist.
      Many times, you are able to do this for the client without the need to involve the clinic. Many times, the
      client will ask you for the cost and time required of several procedures; you can prepare a provisional
      treatment plan with this information. We will help you with this to begin with. We are always available to
      answer your questions. Theoretical plans should be requested only as a last resort. The whole point of
      employing a team of agents is that the clinic doesn’t need to provide prices, plans and breakdowns.
      This is one of our purposes as agents!


10:
Q: Can you tell me exactly what treatment I need from my X-rays?
       A: No. While X-rays provide valuable information, an accurate diagnosis often requires a clinical
      examination. There are too many variables to provide a definitive diagnosis without seeing the patient in
      person.


11:
Q: How accurate is a treatment plan provided by X-rays?
       A: Preliminary treatment plans are estimated based on the information available. Final treatment
      recommendations can only be confirmed after a full in person examination by the treating dentist at their
      consultation.
12:
Q. CAN I HAVE AN IMPLANT AT THE SAME TIME AS MY EXTRACTION?
          Sometimes. In some cases, it is possible to place a dental implant at the same appointment as a tooth
           extraction. This is known as immediate implant placement.
          However, this depends on several clinical factors, including the condition of the tooth being removed,
           the quality and quantity of the surrounding bone, the presence of infection, and your overall oral health.
               o Unfortunately, it is not possible to determine with certainty whether immediate implant
                   placement is suitable based solely on X-rays, photographs, or information provided by email.
               o A definitive decision can only be made at the time of the extraction by the dentist. This process is
                   possible but unlikely and could not be assured prior to the extraction.
               o Direct implant placement is not possible further back than the premolar region. Direct
                   implant placement is only possible for the front teeth and even then, it’s more an exception
                   to the rule. (Do you know what a premolar is, your front teeth bite pieces off and as you go
                   back from there, they become flatter to grind the food into small bits, this is progressive
                   this is basic knowledge if you are not familiar look it up now)




13:

Q. WHAT DOES FIVE WORKING DAYS MEAN, AND CAN I LEAVE EARLIER?

          NOTE: The dentist will discuss the individual treatment schedule during the consultation and will keep
          the patient informed if any adjustments become necessary.
          The usual start is on Monday. If a patient has been given an estimation of 5 days, encourage them to
           arrive on Sunday
          Treatment time may be shorter or longer depending on several factors, including clinical findings during
           the consultation, treatment progress, laboratory requirements, and any unforeseen circumstances.
           any necessary follow-up appointments
          The clinic is not open on weekends.
14:
Q. HOW MANY DAYS WILL I NEED TO BE IN BUDAPEST FOR CROWNS?
         Typical: 5 working days is usually required for 1 to 5 crowns.
             o 1 Day to measure the crowns
             o 3 days to make the crowns
             o 1 day to fit the crowns.
             NOTE: Plenty of time in between to discover Budapest or go to Vienna for a couple of days. (two
             hours by train)
         For more than five crowns: add one day up to 12 crowns (days) at which point it is 12 days regardless of
          the number of crowns needed.




15:
Q. DO YOU DO ALL-ON-4’S?
The big difference between individual dental implants and All on 4 is that this technique requires only four
implants to support the entire bridge, which reduces costs and avoids the need for large bone grafts, and it is
also much faster and more efficient.
                                    Yes. Kreativ Dental provides All-on-4 and other full-arch implant solutions
                                    for suitable candidates.
                                    The treatment timeline varies from patient to patient
                                    Usually, the first visit involves consultation, diagnostic imaging, any
                                    necessary extractions, implant placement, and the fitting of a temporary
                                    bridge.
                                    Treatment depends on several factors, including bone quality and quantity, the
                                    presence of infection, whether extractions are required, your medical history,
                                    and the treatment approach recommended by your implant surgeon.
Usually, a second visit is required to fabricate and fit the final restoration after the healing period. This
technique for replacing missing teeth with a complete dental bridge, supported only by four titanium implants
placed into the jawbone, ensures implant osseointegration and the complete retention of the prosthesis. (Look at
the movie in the price list about this, in fact look at all the movies! Use them, send them to your clients to help
educate them. It will help them make good decisions and build trust.




      (REFER TO PICTURE ON NEXT PAGE FOR FURTHER IMFORMATION)




16:
Q. WHAT ARE SAMPLE TIME FRAMES FOR DIFFERENT PROCEDURES?
                Procedure [1]                         Est. Chair Time              Required Stay in Budapest

Initial Consultation & X-Rays       2 to 3 hours                          1 day

Single Dental Implant               30 - 45 minutes                       1 appointment

Crowns / Bridges (per arch)         1 - 2 hours (multiple appointments)   5 days

Multiple Implants + Abutments       1 - 2 hours                           5 days

                                                                          12 to 15 working days (3-4 month healing
Full Mouth Reconstruction           Varies (extensive multi-stage)
                                                                          interval)

Endodontic Treatment (Root Canal)   60 minutes                            1 appointment




17:     Q. HOW IS MY PAIN MANAGED?
       COMFORT & SAFETY: Your Kreativ dentist will always prioritize your comfort and safety and will
       discuss the most appropriate approach based on your individual needs and their knowledge of the latest
       scientifically based comfort technologies.
       IV sedation is NOT offered at this time.
PATIENT-CENTERED COMFORT: Importantly, all Kreativ professionals are trained in the latest comfort
technologies, thanks to the required ongoing Professional Development for all KD professionals
    Local anesthesia - Most dental treatments are performed under local anesthesia, which numbs the
    treatment area so that you do not feel pain during the procedure.
    Anxiety - For patients who experience dental anxiety, the team will take extra care to ensure you are
    comfortable throughout your visit. This includes taking additional time during treatment, gentle
    techniques, and ensuring you are relaxed and fully numb before proceeding. The patient can also bring
    their own anxiety medication from their own Dr or medical professional, with the original prescription and
      the medication in the original packaging. THE DENTIST NEEDS TO KNOW THIS PRIOR TO
      STARTING TREATMENT.




After-Treatment - It is normal to experience mild discomfort or sensitivity as the area heals. If needed, your
dentist will provide guidance on appropriate pain relief and aftercare instructions to support recovery.
18:
Q. CAN I HAVE A ROOT CANAL AND A CROWN AT THE SAME TIME?
   Yes, sometimes. In some cases, it may be possible to prepare and fit a crown shortly after root canal
    treatment. But not likely; it depends on several factors, including the condition of the tooth, the extent of
    any infection, the amount of remaining tooth structure, and your dentist's clinical assessment.
   For most patients, the dentist will recommend completing the root canal treatment first and monitoring
    the tooth before proceeding with the final crown.
   Unfortunately, it is not possible to provide an answer before arriving in Budapest. Your Budapest dentist
    will explain the available options and the timeline after the assessment.
   Kreativ Dental’s priority is always to provide the most predictable long-term outcome for the tooth
    rather than simply the quickest solution.




    (REFER TO THE NEXT TWO PICTURES ON NEXT TWO PAGES FOR FURTHER
    INFORMATION)
19:
TRAVEL, TRANSPORTATION, ACCOMMODATIONS, & SUPPORT


Q. WHAT ARE THE AIRPORT TRANSFER, HOTEL, AND DAILY TRANSPORTATION
ARRANGEMENTS?
     SUPERIOR. Patients rave about the smooth, stress-free travel experience, which is part of the Kreativ
      Dental package, and includes both airport transfers and accommodation arrangements.
          Check-In at the airport kiosk upon arrival (Terminal 2A).
          Car and Driver will be waiting for you
          You will be driven directly to Arena Hotel or your consultation depending on schedule.
          Daily shuttle from hotel to clinic
(REFER TO THE NEXT TWO PAGES FOR FURTHER INFORMATION)
WHY THE ARENA HOTEL? This hotel is a partner hotel and is the best possible choice, though
other hotels are nearby:
     Special rates
     Daily pick-up to and from the clinic, which is synced with your clinic appointments. Just walk
       downstairs 15-30 min before your appointment.
     Prime Location: A one-minute walk from the Puskás Ferenc Stadion metro station, the city
       center is only 5 to 10 minutes away.
     Public transport is free for people over 65 however you must be able to show proof to transport
       inspectors on demand. This can be your passport or a driver's license, not a photo.
     Breakfast: The buffet has a massive selection of rotating continental, local, and international
       options. This is included in your room rate. The hotel will also prepare a boxed breakfast if you
       need to leave early for your dental appointment or airport, but you must request this at the hotel's
       front desk the prior day.
     Value & Facilities: Access to the on-site gym, indoor swimming pool, sauna.
     Very, very clean with excellent hotel staff who also serve as concierges
     10% off all meals purchased at the hotel restaurant for Kreativ Dental patients (does not include
       room service, charged at full rate)
     Massage available (can’t be charged to room)

20:
Q: WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO INFORM MAIN AGENTS OF PATIENT TRAVEL PLANS AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE?
         IMPORTANT: Once the travel details (flights/dates) have been provided to you, as sub-agents, you
          should make sure the main agents are aware of instructions regarding the patient as soon as possible:
             o Scheduling: Appointments need to be scheduled as soon as possible. Everything - airport
                 pickup, hotel reservations, dental scheduling - will flow better than the earlier travel plans are
                 known.
             o The Main Agents will confirm the booking has been made and provide you with
                 confirmation, once done, you will confirm this with the client and include in your response
                 the document “What to expect in Budapest” this contains much information that is helpful to
                 them. Check in with them to ensure they have read it, and review line-by-line if necessary.
             o Get the patient to Photograph the “What to expect in Budapest letter”. Suggest that patients
                 use their phone to take a picture of it for future reference. This letter needs personalizing in
                 several places do not send it without first doing this.




21:
I ONLY WANT TO HAVE ONE DENTAL TRIP TO BUDAPEST. IS THIS POSSIBLE?


We understand that many international patients would prefer to complete their treatment in a single visit to
Budapest. However, the number of visits required depends entirely on your individual clinical circumstances
and the treatment recommended by your dentist.
While some treatments can be completed during one visit, others may require additional appointments to allow
for healing, laboratory procedures, or to ensure the best possible long-term outcome.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to guarantee that treatment can be completed in a single trip before they have
been examined by the dental team. Any treatment plan provided prior to their consultation is provisional and
may change following a clinical examination and diagnostic imaging.
Our dentists will always consider patience travel requirements when planning treatment and will discuss all
available options with them. However, clinical considerations and long-term treatment success must remain the
primary factors in determining the appropriate treatment schedule.
22:
QUESTION.
WILL I HAVE DENTAL APPOINTMENTS EVERY DAY
Treatment schedules vary depending on the type of dental work being carried out and your individual treatment
plan.
Some procedures require appointments on consecutive days, while others involve rest days between treatments
to allow for healing, laboratory work, or clinical planning. In many cases, patients do not receive dental
treatment every single day during their stay in Budapest.
Your dentist will structure your treatment schedule in a way that allows sufficient time for clinical procedures to
be completed safely and to the highest standard, while also taking into account your overall treatment needs.
The exact day-by-day schedule can only be confirmed after your consultation. Once your full treatment plan has
been completed, the patient will be given an appointment card detailing all of their appointments and the days
on which they occur.




23:
QUESTION.
WHAT DAY SHOULD I PLAN TO ARRIVE IN BUDAPEST TO START TREATMENT
The dental week usually starts on Monday
The best day to arrive in Budapest is typically on Sunday before your scheduled consultation.


This allows you time to travel comfortably, settle in, and be well-rested before your appointment at the clinic.
Your first appointment is usually a consultation, during which your dentist will conduct a full clinical
assessment and confirm your personalized treatment plan. In some cases, treatment may begin shortly after the
consultation, depending on your clinical needs and the time required for any additional diagnostic procedures.
For this reason, we recommend planning to arrive at least one day before your first clinic appointment to ensure
you are fully prepared and not rushed after travel.
Once you have accepted a treatment plan, our team will provide you with an appointment card detailing
appointment times and treatment dates.
24:
QUESTION:
WHAT ARE CROWNS MADE FROM?
At Kreativ Dental, dental crowns are made using modern, high-quality, metal-free materials designed to provide
both strength and a natural appearance.
The most used materials are full ceramic (porcelain) and zirconia.
Zirconia crowns are highly durable and strong, making them an excellent choice for back teeth where chewing
forces are greatest. They are also widely used in more complex restorative cases where long-term strength and
stability are important.
Full ceramic crowns are highly aesthetic and are often chosen for front teeth or visible areas of the mouth.
They are designed to closely mimic the translucency and natural appearance of real teeth, making them an
excellent option where appearance is a priority.
In many cases, different materials may be recommended for different teeth within the same treatment plan to
achieve the best balance between function and aesthetics.
Your dentist will carefully assess your bite, tooth position, gum health, and overall treatment goals before
recommending the most suitable material for your individual case. The final decision is always made after a full
clinical examination and consultation in Budapest.


INFORMATION:
When a person has lost a tooth a long-time time ago two things start to occur, one is that bone loss will begin to
occur in this area so therefore if an implant was to be placed there a bone graft would probably be needed and a
bridge would be considered as another possible solution. The second thing that occurs is that without the
original tooth in place to maintain location, the teeth surrounding the gap move, this leads to secondary issues
with bite etc.
25:
DENTAL IMPLANTS


Q: Am I a candidate for dental implants?


A: Most patients are suitable candidates for implants. However, bone quantity, bone quality, medical
history, oral health, and lifestyle factors must all be evaluated before a dentist can confirm suitability.


Q: How long does implant treatment take?


A: Treatment times vary. Most cases can be completed in 8 months, Extraction 4 months healing,
Implant 4 months healing then crown. While more complex cases involving bone grafting may take
longer.


Q: Do implants hurt?


A: Implant placement is typically performed under local anesthetic. Most patients report less discomfort
than they expected and often compare it to a routine dental extraction.


Q: How long do dental implants last?


A: With proper care and maintenance, dental implants can last many years and often decades.




26:
Q: What implant brands do Kreativ Dental use?
A: Straumann, Nobal Bio Care and Cowell Medi are the systems used by the clinic. The clinic won’t use
other systems even upon request. The Clinic will work with existing systems however which have already
been placed for patients. In this case we need to obtain detailed information about the implants so we can
check whether or not there is a Hungarian or at least a European retailer. This needs to be confirmed before the
patient is booked to avoid wasted trips. (Ask the patient for their dental passport if they don’t have it they will
need to contact the person who placed the implant.)




27:
QUESTIONS:
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE IMPLANT BRANDS
Dental implant systems such as Straumann, Nobel Biocare, and Cowell Medi are all widely used systems in
modern implant dentistry, and all are designed to replace missing teeth safely and effectively. The main
differences between them relate to their design philosophy, materials, surface technology, and long-term
clinical documentation.
Straumann implants are Swiss-made and are among the most extensively researched implant systems in the
world. They are known for their high-quality engineering, strong clinical evidence base, and advanced surface
technologies designed to support predictable bone integration.
Nobel Biocare implants are also a well-established Swiss system and were one of the pioneers of modern
dental implant treatment. They are widely used globally and are known for their versatility in both simple and
complex implant cases, including full-arch restorations.
Cowell implants are a more recent implant system that is used in a number of international clinics. Like other
modern systems, they are designed to meet current standards of implant dentistry, but they typically have a
shorter long-term clinical track record compared to the more established systems mentioned above.
In practice, all three systems can be suitable when correctly planned and placed. The most important factor for
success is not only the implant brand, but the clinical assessment, surgical technique, bone quality, and the
experience of the implant team.
For patients from America and Canada the main benefit of using the more expensive systems, Straumann and
Nobal is that American and Canadian dentists will be familiar with the brand and will likely have the necessary
tools to work with these implants. This may be more reassuring too patients.
(REFER TO IMAGES ON THE NEXT TWO PAGES FOR FURTHER INFORMATION)
28:

Q: What is a sinus lift and why is it necessary?

A: A sinus lift is a dental procedure that adds bone to the upper back jaw, usually in the area of the molars and
premolars.

The maxillary sinus is an air-filled space located above the upper jaw. In some patients, there is not enough
bone between the mouth and the sinus to safely support a dental implant. This can happen when upper back
teeth have been missing for a long time, because the bone naturally shrinks after tooth loss. In some cases, the
sinus may also sit too close to the jaw.

During a sinus lift, the dentist gently raises the sinus membrane and places bone graft material underneath it.
This creates more bone height and a stronger foundation for a future dental implant.

A sinus lift may be necessary if there is not enough bone to hold the implant securely. The purpose is to
improve implant stability, support long-term success, and reduce the risk of implant failure.

Not every patient needs a sinus lift. The dentist will determine this after reviewing your X-rays or CBCT scan
and completing your clinical examination.




                   (REFER TO NEXT IMAGE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION)
29:
Many people had their wisdom teeth removed using local anesthetic (myself included) and this is a
common process. IV sedation is often suggested in the U.S. and Canada but this increases the cost of the
process considerable but does not change or improve the outcome in any way.
30:
Q: Can Kreativ Dental help if I have extensive dental problems?


A: Yes. The clinic specifically treats patients requiring complex restorative treatment, including full-
mouth rehabilitation, multiple implants, crowns, bridges, and cosmetic procedures.
31:
COSTS AND PAYMENT


Payment:
As a good faith gesture, a payment of 50% of your current visit plan is required prior to the commencement of
any dental work.
The remainder is due at the end of that dental visit for services rendered. This pattern is repeated at each visit.
If you’re paying by debit card or credit card, please make sure your bank is aware of your transaction.
Payment can also be made by wire transfer. Please ask us to supply the wire transfer details to you for the
patient on request.
Paying cash may qualify for a discount or flight credit! (Cash means actual cash; this is usually 3% which is the
credit card charge.)
If you have any questions about your invoice, our front desk can assist, or you can reach out to our management
team either Tom or Alex while there and through us the main agents upon return.
Q: How much will my treatment cost?
A: Agents are responsible for informing dental patients about treatment costs by referring to the official price
list on the Kreativ Dental website.

This is an important part of your role as an agent. You are not expected to diagnose or prepare a complex
treatment plans, you are expected to answer simpler questions and you can often give patients a good idea of
costs if they provide you with enough information (we will help you with this until you gain some experience)
but you are expected to help patients understand the pricing structure, explain where the official prices can be
found, and guide them through the general cost information available. The clinic is far too busy to answer
simple questions we will help you. This is one of the purposes of this document!

This is part of what you are being remunerated for: helping dental patients feel informed, supported, and
confident enough to take the next step toward booking their consultation with Kreativ Dental.

You are expected be able to answer questions like

How will an implant cost?
How much will my extraction cost?

How much will my root canal cost?

That is why you should be familiar with the price list on your website.

The dental team will give you additional price information once they look at the X-Rays, CBCT scans, and the
dental plan from their own dentist if it can be obtained.

A theoretical plan can also be prepared to help the patient prepare for the expected treatment cost.


32:
SAMPLE THEORETICAL TREATMENT PLAN

Fictitious Example for Agent Training Purposes Only
Important: This is a sample theoretical treatment plan. It is not a final diagnosis, not a confirmed treatment
recommendation, and is not a binding quotation.

A theoretical treatment plan may be prepared before the patient travels to Budapest when the patient has
supplied X-rays, CBCT scans, photographs, and/or a treatment plan from their local dentist. If the patient is
requesting information regarding the cost and timing of certain procedures, then you will create a proposed
treatment plan. We will help you with this until you are familiar. The clinic will always be consulted once any
inquiry involves the need to study x-rays etc as this is outside of our scope of expertise.

The final treatment plan, treatment sequence, timing, and cost can only be confirmed after an in-person
consultation, clinical examination, and diagnostic imaging at Kreativ Dental.



Patient Example
Patient: Sample Patient
Quotation Type: Theoretical treatment plan based on records sent in advance
Prepared for: Agent training / patient education example
Currency: USD
Status: Subject to clinical confirmation in Budapest




Initial Situation
The patient has multiple missing, damaged, or failing teeth. Some teeth may require extraction. Several teeth
may require crowns or build-ups. Implants may be possible after healing, depending on bone condition.

Because the patient has not yet been examined in person, this plan is theoretical only. The clinic would be
involved in creating the following plan. It would not be your responsibility to prepare, however you need to
know how to read it so you can discuss it with the patient!
Planned Treatment Overview
The treatment may require three separate treatment stages:

   1. Visit 1: Consultation, hygiene, extractions, temporary crowns or temporary bridge
   2. Visit 2: Implant assessment and possible implant placement
   3. Visit 3: Final crowns, implant crowns, bridge work, and bite registration



VISIT 1

Consultation, Preparation, Extractions & Temporary Teeth
                                                                                           Estimated
        Item         Treatment             Teeth             Price/pc          Qty
                                                                                                Cost
                   Ortho-
 1/1               Pantograph         —                 $0               1                $0
                   X-ray
 1/2               Consultation       —                 $0               1                $0
                   Consultation
 1/3               with oral          —                 $0               1                $0
                   surgeon
                   Dental
 1/4               hygienic           —                 $80              1                $80
                   treatment
                   Injection /
 1/5               local              8 ampoules        $3               8                $24
                   anesthetic
                   Crown
 1/6                                  46                $30              1                $30
                   removal
                   Surgical           27, 28, 31, 41,
 1/7                                                    $195             6                $1,170
                   extraction         42, 46
                   Dissolvable
 1/8                                  —                 $45              1                $45
                   stitches
                   Medical
 1/9                                  —                 $45              1                $45
                   package
                   Temporary
                   crown /
 1/10              bridge unit        32, 33, 43        $25              3                $75
                   without
                   guarantee
                   Long-term
                   temporary
                   crown /           31, 32, 33, 41,
 1/11                                                   $90               6                  $540
                   bridge unit       42, 43
                   without
                  guarantee
Estimated duration of Visit 1: 5 working days
Estimated healing period after Visit 1: approximately 3 months

Estimated total for Visit 1: $2,009 USD

Important note: Treatment during this visit may vary depending on the condition of the existing teeth, gums,
and periodontal tissues.




VISIT 2

Implant Assessment & Possible Implant Placement
                                                                                             Estimated
 Item              Treatment         Teeth              Price/pc          Qty
                                                                                             Cost
                   Ortho-
 2/1               Pantograph        —                  $55               1                  $55
                   X-ray
                   Consultation
 2/2               with oral         —                  $0                1                  $0
                   surgeon
                   CBCT scan, if
 2/3                                 —                  $110              1                  $110
                   necessary
                   Injection /
 2/4               local             6 ampoules         $3                6                  $18
                   anesthetic
                   Cowellmedi
                   Inno Fixture
                   Implant,          15, 16, 26, 27,
 2/5                                                    $750              7                  $5,250
                   titanium          31, 42, 46
                   abutment
                   included
                   Healing cap       15, 16, 26, 27,
 2/6                                                    $40               7                  $280
                   per implant       31, 42, 46
 2/7               Dissolvable       —                  $45               2                  $90
                   stitches
                   Medical
 2/8                                 —                 $45                1                  $45
                  package
Estimated duration of Visit 2: 4 working days
Estimated healing period after Visit 2: approximately 4 months

Estimated total for Visit 2: $5,848 USD

Important note: The possibility of implant placement depends on the bone situation after healing. Implant
placement cannot be guaranteed before the patient has been examined.




VISIT 3

Final Restoration: Crowns, Implant Crowns, Bridge Work & Bite Registration
                                                                                             Estimated
 Item              Treatment         Teeth              Price/pc          Qty
                                                                                             Cost
                   Ortho-
 3/1               Pantograph        —                  $55               1                  $55
                   X-ray
                   Face Bow
 3/2               bite              —                  $460              1                  $460
                   registration
                   Injection /
 3/3               local             20 ampoules        $3                20                 $60
                   anesthetic
                   Stump build-      11, 12, 17, 21,
 3/4                                                    $55               6                  $330
                   up                36, 37
                   Temporary
                   crown /
                                     Multiple
 3/5               bridge unit                          $25               23                 $575
                                     teeth
                   without
                   guarantee
                   Porcelain
                   fused to High
                                     Multiple
 3/6               Translucent                          $550              20                 $11,000
                                     teeth
                   Zirconia
                   Crown
                   Porcelain         15, 16, 26, 27,
 3/7                                                    $580              7                  $4,060
                   fused to High     31, 42, 46
                    Translucent
                    Zirconia
                    Crown on
                    Implant
                    Porcelain
                    fused to High
 3/8                Translucent        41                 $550               1                   $550
                    Zirconia
                    Bridge Unit
 3/9             Night guard        Upper                 $200               1                   $200
Estimated duration of Visit 3: 12 working days

Alternative timing option:
5 working days + 1 week break + 5 working days

Estimated total for Visit 3: $17,290 USD




Estimated Total Treatment Cost
 Visit                                                    Estimated Cost
 Visit 1                                                  $2,009
 Visit 2                                                  $5,848
 Visit 3                                                  $17,290
Estimated total cost of treatment: $25,147 USD




Important Notes for the Patient
This plan is theoretical and is based only on the information available before the patient’s in-person
consultation.

The final treatment plan may change after:

     Clinical examination
     Updated X-rays or CBCT scan
     Assessment of bone quality and quantity
     Assessment of gum and periodontal condition
     Review of existing crowns, root canals, or failing teeth
     Discussion with the treating dentist or oral surgeon
The dentist may recommend fewer procedures, additional procedures, a different implant plan, a longer healing
period, or a different restoration option after examining the patient.
Agent Explanation
Agents may use this type of theoretical plan to help a patient understand likely treatment stages, estimated
working days, healing periods, and approximate costs.

Agents must not present this as a guaranteed final plan.

The correct wording is:

“This is a theoretical treatment plan based on the information available before your in-person consultation.
33:
Q: Are there hidden costs?


A: No. The clinic aims to provide clear and transparent pricing. If additional treatment becomes
necessary, the dentist will discuss this with the patient before proceeding.
34:
TRAVEL AND ACCOMMODATION


Q: Can you help with accommodation?


A: Yes. Through you as Subagents we arrange and book accommodation for the patient at our partner hotel, the
Danubius Hotel Arena.

Kreativ Dental patients receive a special rate at the hotel, which makes staying in Budapest easier, more
convenient, and more affordable during your dental treatment.

The hotel is a popular choice for our patients because it offers complimentary breakfast and access to the
Kreativ Dental shuttle service, which helps transport patients between the hotel and the clinic.

This means they do not have to worry about finding their own way to their appointments each day. The
accommodation and shuttle service are designed to make the dental journey as smooth, comfortable, and stress-
free as possible. The subway is a two-minute walk and 4 stops to the middle of the city (ten minutes)

Patients over 65 travels free throughout Hungary but need to carry ID to prove this if asked!
35:
Q: How far is the clinic from the airport?


A: Budapest’s international airport is approximately 30–45 minutes from central Budapest, depending
on traffic conditions.
36:
Q: Is Budapest safe?
 A: Hungary is rated as the 17th safest country in the world (America is 124th) and Budapest is considered
a safe and welcoming city for international visitors and is one of Europe’s most popular tourist
destinations. The city water from the tap is safe to drink, good luck with that in Turkey or Mexico!




37:
GUARANTEES AND AFTERCARE


Q: Does Kreativ Dental provide a guarantee on treatment?


A: We have one of the best guarantees in the industry
THE WEB SITE HAS THE LINK TO THE GUARANTEE, EMAIL IT TO THEM
A COPY OF THE GUARANTEE IS PROVIDED IN THEIR TREATMENT PLAN FOR THEIR
FUTURE REFERENCE

https://kreativdentalclinic.eu/en/guarantee Link to Guarantee




                                       (Refer to picture on next page)
Q: What happens if I have a problem after returning home?

A: If the patient experiences any concern after returning home, they should contact their agent. The agent needs
to find out what the issue is, check if they have had their annual checkups, and ask for a description and pictures
of the problem which will in turn be sent to the clinic through the main agents for review.

If the problem is related to treatment completed at Kreativ Dental, the clinic will review the situation carefully
and advise you according to the individual case and any applicable guarantee or aftercare policy.
Patients should not ignore symptoms or wait too long before asking for advice. The sooner the clinic is
informed, the easier it is for the team to help guide you properly to resolve the issue.



38:

Q: Will I need maintenance after treatment?

A: Yes. Regular dental maintenance is essential for protecting your long-term dental health and helping your
treatment last as long as possible.

After your treatment is completed, you should continue to have regular dental examinations, professional
cleanings, and maintain excellent oral hygiene at home.

To maintain your Kreativ Dental guarantee, you are required to have an annual dental examination with your
local dentist. This helps ensure that any small issues are identified early and properly managed.

If you return to Kreativ Dental in Budapest, the clinic can also provide your annual examination free of charge.

Failure to have an annual Checkup will void the Guarantee.




39:
Q: I have diabetes. Can I have dental implants?
A: Many patients with diabetes can successfully receive dental implants. However, each case is different and
must be carefully assessed by the treating dentist.

The most important factor is how well your diabetes is controlled. Patients with well-managed diabetes are still
suitable candidates for implant treatment, but the dentist will need to review your medical history, current
medications, healing ability, oral health, bone condition, and any other risk factors.

Before treatment, you should inform the clinic that you have diabetes and provide any relevant medical
information. In some cases, the dentist may also recommend that you speak with your doctor before beginning
treatment.

Good oral hygiene, regular dental maintenance, and stable blood sugar levels are especially important for
diabetic patients, both before and after implant placement.

The final decision can only be made after an in-person consultation and clinical assessment at the clinic.


40:
Q: I smoke. Can I have implants?
 A: Smoking can affect healing and implant success rates. The dentist will evaluate your circumstances
and discuss any increased risks. Rarely would this stop you receiving implants.




41:
Q: I take medication. Will that be a problem?
 A: Patients should provide a complete list of medications and medical conditions. This is part of your
consultation when you first arrive at the clinic. The dentist will review this information before
recommending treatment. If the patient has concerns prior to leaving, then get the information from them and
give it to the main agent for review by the clinic in advance. The greatest concern for the Clinic is blood
thinners. It is good for the clinic to know about this in advance and the reason the patient is taking them for,
Medication effecting the INR level have to be below 2.0 for the clinic to treat patients. (The patient may have to
consult with their doctor before coming to Budapest)




42:
QUESTIONS AGENTS SHOULD NEVER ANSWER
Agents must never:
      : Diagnose dental conditions.
         Guarantee treatment outcomes.
         Promise exact treatment costs before clinical assessment.
         Recommend specific procedures without dentist approval.
         Predict implant suitability.
         Offer medical opinions outside their training.
                       (Refer to picture below)




If you are uncertain you should say:
 “Based on the information available, it is not possible to give you an answer as there are too many
variables and it would be inappropriate to guess. One of our dentists will need to review higher quality
records or, where necessary, perform an in-person examination before providing accurate advice.”
43:
AGENT GOLDEN RULE


When uncertain, do not guess.


Patients trust Kreativ Dental because of its professionalism, honesty, and integrity. It is always better to
say “I don’t know, but I will find out for you” than to provide inaccurate information.


44:

OUR BIGGEST COMPETITOR IS CORRUPT

      Our biggest competitor is corrupt. If your client says that they are comparing us to other clinics in
      Budapest then this is probably the most likely comparison they will make.

      We provide them this information about Helvetic Clinic, so people don’t get fooled they are not
      good people.



       https://pinatscandal.com/helvetic-clinics-scandal/
45:

THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENT “WHAT TO EXPECT IN BUDAPEST”

We always provide this document to patients prior to their leaving and encourage them to take pictures of it
with their phones for future reference. We also send it to people who want information about the Clinic and
Budapest as they are deciding what they want to do. READ IT you will see that it needs to be personalized in
several places with names and flight details etc DO NOT JUST SEND IT.




Here's What to Expect During Your Budapest Experience:

Your Appointment would be at this address

Kreativ Dental Clinic

Address: 1141 Budapest, Vezér utca 100, Hungary

Phone: +36 1 222 01 99

1. Airport Pickup:

Once we have your arrival information, we will organize your welcome package and your airport transportation.

When you arrive at Franz Liszt International Airport, head to the Kreativ Dental Kiosk Desk in Terminal 2A (not 2b)
after you exit to the baggage claim area.

If you run into any issues, feel free to stop by the Tourist Information desk, and they can help you get in touch with us
or your hotel. No worries—everyone at the airport speaks English!
3. Appointment:
Your first consultation appointment will be made once we have your flight details and you will be given your
appointment card at the airport.
Times might shift a bit due to flight delays or how busy the clinic is, but rest assured we’ll get you in as soon as
we can to kickstart your treatment.
4. Your Visit to Kreativ Dental:
When you arrive at the clinic, our staff will greet you. You’ll fill out some registration forms, then we’ll take
your 3D dental x-rays, or Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) scans (these are advanced dental
imaging techniques that create three-dimensional views of the teeth, jaw, bones, nerves, and soft tissues,
offering far greater detail and accuracy than traditional 2D x-rays.) We will have the dentist review them. After
that, you’ll have your first consultation where the dentist will discuss a personalized Treatment Plan just for
you!
5. Treatment Plan:
Your treatment plan will include different options, all clearly laid out with prices. If you have any questions or
need clarification, just let our front desk know! Once you confirm your plan, we’ll provide you with a treatment
schedule and any instructions you might need. You will probably start your treatment right away, so please
delay planning your social activities accordingly.
6. Problem Solving:
Our front desk staff is here to help with any issues you might have. If you need further assistance, you can
always ask to speak with management; Tom or Alex are always ready to lend a hand.
7. Post-Treatment Guidelines:
We’ll give you clear instructions on medication, oral care, hygiene, dietary tips, and long-term management to
ensure your recovery goes smoothly.
8. Sky Café:
The Sky Café Manager is available to answer questions about Budapest. The café offers Wi-Fi, computer
stations, and a printer for your convenience, along with delicious coffee and healthy snacks. If you find yourself
waiting there between treatments, just let our staff know, and they’ll call you when it’s time to come back.
9. After-Hours Care:
We have a dentist on call, so if you need anything, just check with the front desk. If you require a personal
prescription refill, we’re here to help!
 10. Personal Medications: Don’t forget to bring your medications in their original containers for safety. It’s
also a good idea to have a copy of your prescriptions handy in case you need a replacement. There are plenty of
pharmacies throughout the city, and pharmacists are very knowledgeable if you have questions.
11. Payment:
As a good faith gesture, a payment of 50% of your current visit is required prior to the commencement of any
dental work.
The remainder is due at the end of your dental visit for services rendered thus far. This process is repeated at
each visit.
If you’re paying by debit card or credit card, please make sure your bank is aware of your transaction.
Paying cash may qualify for a 3% discount (credit card fee) or flight credit! (cash means cash)
If you have any questions about your invoice, our front desk can assist, or you can reach out to our management
team either Tom or Alex.
12. Travel Documents:
Keep your travel documents secure! If possible, bring digital copies of a CT scan rather than physical films.




13.Travel information for Budapest City:
Bolt car transport Bolt is recommended over Uber as it has more cars available and is more reliable.
Https://bolt.eu/en/cities/budapest/ don’t just hail a taxi they will most likely over charge always order from your
APP.



https://www.bigbustours.com/en/budapest/budapest-bus-tours
14. Kreativ Dental USA:
We (Agents Name) will keep an eye on your progress throughout your treatment.
We’re available 24/7 if you need any assistance.
Thank you again for trusting Kreativ Dental enough to consider us for your dental care.
Be Kreativ and Smile!




Regards Subagent name
46:
QUESTION:


What is an Apicoectomy?


ANSWER
We refer to this as a resection (incision into the side of gum to drain an infection in a root) associated stitches
and medical package will also apply in any costing provided to a Patient.
Please also note that resections are not always possible or recommended.
The bump on the side of the gum-line is a sign of a periapical infection.
The Clinic can’t determine remotely if the tooth is possible to save or not.




         (REFER TO NEXT PICTURE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION)
47:
QUESTION
Patient wants to split his treatment?

ANSWER Split Treatment Explained
Split treatment means that a patient’s dental treatment is completed in stages rather than all in one visit.

This is very common with dental tourism, especially when the treatment involves extractions, implants, bone healing,
sinus lifts, bone grafting, or full-mouth reconstruction. Some dental procedures require the mouth, gums, and bone to
heal before the next stage can safely begin.

Kreativ Dental’s priority is always to provide the most predictable long-term result, not simply the fastest treatment.

Why Treatment May Need to Be Split
Treatment may need to be split because:

         An extraction site may need time to heal before an implant can be placed.
         A dental implant needs time to integrate with the jawbone before a crown or bridge can be fitted.
         Bone grafting or sinus lift treatment may require a healing period.
         Complex crown, bridge, or full-mouth restoration work may require careful planning and laboratory time.
         The dentist may need to assess how the mouth responds before completing the final stage.
Any treatment plan provided before the patient arrives in Budapest is theoretical. The final decision about timing can
only be made after the dentist has examined the patient in person and reviewed the necessary X-rays or CBCT scan.




Common Split Treatment Options
Option 1: Return Home Between Treatment Stages
The patient comes to Budapest for the first stage of treatment. This may include consultation, X-rays, CBCT scan,
extractions, implant placement, temporary work, or other treatment recommended by the dentist.

The patient then returns home for the required healing period. Once healing is complete, the patient returns to
Budapest for the next stage, such as implant crowns, bridges, or final restoration.

This is often the most practical option for patients who cannot remain in Europe for an extended period.

Option 2: Stay in Europe and Return to the Clinic

In some cases, the patient may need a short waiting period between appointments or treatment stages.

If appropriate, the patient may choose to stay in Budapest, relax, and enjoy the city, or travel around Europe for a
week and then return to the clinic for the next stage of treatment.

This option can turn the dental journey into a more enjoyable travel experience while still allowing the clinic the time
needed to complete the treatment safely and properly.

The dental team will advise the patient exactly when they need to return to the clinic, so travel plans can be arranged
around the treatment schedule.

Important Agent Reminder
Agents should never promise that treatment can be completed in one visit or guarantee that a patient will be suitable
for a split treatment schedule.

The dentist will confirm the final treatment plan, timing, and number of visits after the in-person consultation in
Budapest.

Patients doing the split option for final stage have to be booked in for both visitations.
(You need to inform us if your patient wishes to do this otherwise half of their appointments won’t be set!)


48:
QUESTION
What is the difference between the implant brands, is one of them better than the other?
ANSWER
All of our implant brands are titanium dental implants. Nobel and Strauman are European made brands while
Cowellmedi is South Korean.
Our previous standard system was also South Korean (DIO) and we placed close to 100,000 of them in the 10
or so years they were used.
Cowellmedi has been used for about a year with a near perfect success rate. (2025)
The only advantage of using Nobel or Struamann for US patients is that local dentists will be able and more
willing to work with these two brands as they are used in the states too.
Cowellmedi is not as known, but with that being said currently anything can be ordered quickly.
In our opinion, with Strauman and Nobel you are mainly paying 2x much for the brand.
The material is the same, healing time, success rate is the same.




      (REFER TO PICTURE ON NEXT PAGE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION)
49:
QUESTION
 I’m coming all the way from America, and it is going to cost a lot. Can I have a phone call or even better a
video call with the Dentist please? I think this would make me feel a lot better if I could ask him some
questions.


ANSWER


The Dentist will not talk to a patient prior to their arrival in Budapest.
The Dentist will take as much time as necessary to discuss matters with the patient when the patient is here, but
he does not have the time to do online consultations.
(The Dentist is busy being a Dentist and he is also writing treatment plans both for patients attending their
consultation but also proposed theoretical plans for prospective patience.
It is wasteful and unproductive of the Dentist’s time to talk to a patient about what may or may not be possible.
(This is at best just further speculation)


50:
QUESTION


The treatment plan I got from my Dentist here In New York has a lot of teeth numbers on it, none of them
match the numbers on my proposed treatment plan from Kreativ. I don’t understand?


ANSWER


There are two primary teeth numbering systems in the world. The U.S. and Europe both use different systems.
The explanation is not hard to understand but lengthy
BELOW IS THE CHART WITH BOTH SYSTEMS OVERLAYED YOU NEED TO UNDERSTAND IT AS
YOU WILL NEED SOMETIMES TO REFER TO IT. It will be hard for you to read a treatment plan or answer
the above question if you don't!
          (REFER TO PICTURE ON NEXT PAGE)




INTERESTING BUT NOT OVERLY HELPFULL IMFORMATION

Children have 20 teeth and as a result their own numbering system. Adults have 32 teeth but
many of us have lost all or most of our wisdom teeth so often only have 28 teeth!
51:
QUESTION
What do you do if a patient tells you a few days before they leave that they won’t need to be collected at the
airport because their friend is coming for them.


ANSWER


Tell us so we can cancel the need for the clinic to go to the airport to meet them. The Clinic will need to be able
to call them to tell them their appointment time.
YOU need to get contact information from them so this can happen!




52:
PROCESS WE USE TO WRITE A RESPONSE TO AN EMAIL FROM A CLIENT
 We copy their e-mail at the top of our response and use it as reference as we work through it answering their
concerns and questions. This ensures that we have responded to them fully even if the answer is “I will find out
for you and let you know”. This also allows you to use some of their phrases and words in your reply and this
will assist in building a relationship with your client. Once completed, delete their e-mail prior to sending.




53:
THE FOLLOWING HAS HAPPENED TO US


When you get a couple (Husband and Wife as an example) call or email you and the person that you are
communicating with, is not the patient (therefore your correspondence won’t be addressed to the patient
directly) this is usually as a result of the partner not speaking English or they do not understand computers well.
This often means that both people's names end up in emails etc and this can lead to confusion for the clinic and
us as to who the patient is. It also results in difficulty finding records. Always make sure in any written material
or verbal communications, that you use the patient’s name and don’t leave space for misinterpretation. Dental
Clinics are not natural places for surprises. You need to be clear with us as to who is the patient and who is the
assistant, so we don’t put incorrect information into the CRM and create issues in Budapest.


54:
INTERNATIONAL DENTAL CERTIFICATIONS:


ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Certification
      Kreativ Dental has been certified to the ISO 9001:2015 standard for its quality management system.
      The certification covers dental treatment, dental laboratory services, and X-ray diagnostics.
      The certification was issued by Lloyd's Register for Quality Assurance (LRQA), a globally
       recognized certification body.
International Dental Tourism Accreditations
Treatment Abroad Code of Practice
      Kreativ Dental has been listed as adhering to the Treatment Abroad Code of Practice, an accreditation
       recognized within the medical and dental tourism industry.
Professional and Regulatory Memberships
The clinic is also associated with several professional organizations and regulatory bodies, including:
    Hungarian Dental Association (MFE)
    Hungarian Academy of Esthetic Dentistry (HAED)
    Hungarian public health licensing authorities (ÁNTSZ/NNK)
Historical Recognition
Kreativ Dental's own materials and independent listings have also referenced:
         UKAS-recognized ISO certification through LRQA
         Treatment Abroad accreditation
         High ratings from international dental tourism review organizations such as WhatClinic.
55:
PATIENT HAS SENT X-RAYS
Dear [Patient Name],
Thank you for sending your X-rays and dental information.
Our dental team will review the information you have provided and give an initial opinion. However, any
treatment plan prepared before an in-person consultation is purely provisional and based only on the
information available at this time.
To provide an accurate diagnosis, treatment plan, timeline, and cost estimate, a comprehensive clinical
examination is required in Budapest. During your consultation, additional diagnostic imaging such as an OPG
panoramic X-ray or CT scan may be taken if necessary.
For this reason, it is important to understand that treatment recommendations, procedures, treatment duration,
and costs may change following your consultation.
After your consultation and before any obligation, you will be given a treatment plan which will include cost
and time commitments. (Your consultation is cost and obligation free)



56:

Dental Passport

A dental passport is a simple record that travels with the patient and explains the important
details of their dental treatment history.

For Kreativ Dental, a dental passport is especially important when a patient has dental
implants, because implants are not all the same. Different implant systems have different
sizes, shapes, connections, screws, parts, and tools.

A dental passport may include:

Patient details
Name, date of birth, contact details, and treating clinic.

Implant information
The implant brand, type, size, diameter, length, lot/batch number, and the exact tooth position
where the implant was placed.

Abutment and crown details
Information about the connector, abutment, screw, crown material, and whether the crown is
cemented or screw retained.
Date of treatment
When the implant was placed, when the crown was fitted, and whether healing or
osseointegration was completed.

This information matters because when Kreativ Dental is working with a dental patient who
already has implants, the clinic needs to know exactly what is inside the patient’s mouth
before planning further treatment.

Without this information, it can be difficult to identify the correct implant system or order the
correct parts. This may delay treatment, increase costs, or make it harder to safely repair,
restore, or add to existing dental work.

For example, if a patient has an implant crown that is loose, broken, infected, or needs
replacing, Kreativ Dental needs to know the implant brand and components so the correct
screw, abutment, impression coping, scan body, or replacement crown can be used.

It also helps the dental team avoid unnecessary guesswork. Dentistry should never be based on
assumptions, especially with implants. Accurate implant information allows the clinic to plan
treatment safely, protect the patient’s investment, and reduce the risk of complications.

A clear way to explain this to patients would be:

A dental passport is like a service record for your mouth. If you have dental implants, it
tells the dentist exactly what implant system was used, where it was placed, and what
parts may be needed in the future. This helps Kreativ Dental plan your treatment
accurately, safely, and without unnecessary delays.




57:

Travel power adaptor for Hungary
A universal international travel adapter or a Europe Type C/F adapter with USB and USB-C
ports, rated for 250V. This lets you charge your phone, laptop, tablet, and small electronics.

A simple packing note for Kreativ Dental patients:
For Budapest, please pack a European Type C/F travel adapter. Most phones and laptops only need the adapter, but
U.S. hair dryers and curling irons may need dual voltage or should be left at home.
58:

Why would I need a bone graft
59. What are: Temporary crown and bridge unit,   plastic/acrylic crown or bridge unit,   aesthetic shoulder porcelain
60: What are Periodontal Surgical Treatments.




.
61: What is a Closed Curettage Periodontal Surgery
62: What are:

Precision Attachments

Long term temporary partial denture

Long term temporary tooth

Denture reline/rebase

Adding tooth to denture
63: What is a Sinus Closing
64: Arcus Digma II
65: Face Bow Registration.




66: Multi Surface Filling
67: Dental Filling
68: Night Guard & Medical Package
69: Dental Hygienic Treatment

   Tooth Whitening Home Kit

   Zoom! Tooth Whitening Upper and Lower
70: Dental Tax Deduction (America)
71: Dental Finance
72: Patient Payments to Clinic
73: Kreativ Dental Awards
